[Transcript missing]
My name is Robert Ulrich and I'm one of
the engineers working on Time Machine.
And so today,
here's what we're going to cover.
Rather than spend a lot
of time doing a demo,
which hopefully you've already seen,
and hopefully you've actually
installed this stuff on your
machine and have tried it,
there's really not a lot I could
show you better than what
Scott showed you on Monday.
So I'm not going to spend a
lot of time showing you the UI,
because hopefully you've
already seen that.
Instead,
what we're going to do is we're going
to talk a little bit about what it
is that we've done with Time Machine.
Some of our design goals, the features,
and why we've done them
the way we've done them.
How Time Machine works internally,
and how to make yourself
play nice with Time Machine,
a few tips for your app,
and then we'll have
plenty of time for Q&A.
So why did we do Time Machine?
As Scott kind of mentioned on Monday,
we did a survey of a bunch of users
and we asked them if they thought
they should be backing up their data.
And what we found out was that 80%
of the people said that they believed
they should be backing up their data.
So we then asked them, okay, well,
so how many of you do it?
And we got this answer,
26%. So this means that over
half the users not only know they
should be backing up their data,
they're not doing it.
So in addition,
the people who do it on a regular
basis turns out to be 4%. And that's
kind of not a good number because,
you know, you want to protect your data.
It is important.
And mistakes can happen.
Things can get deleted and, you know,
hardware can crash.
Why don't people backup today?
Well, a lot of the reasons,
there's many reasons,
here's a few of them.
Existing solutions can be
intimidating to set up,
they have a lot of options,
you see huge lists of files and you
don't know which ones you really need
to backup and which ones you don't.
It doesn't happen for you automatically,
so it's not just part of your life,
it's something you have to think to do.
It's not convenient, you know,
because you've got to remember when
to do it and you've got to have,
you know,
set everything up to do it at that time.
And it can be really hard to
find those files later when
you do actually need them,
you know,
you're fumbling through different disks,
you know, you don't know where it's at
and it can be very difficult.
So we've tried to make
things really simple,
that's kind of a goal.
So the main design goals
we have are shown here.
We want it to be really
simple to configure,
integrated with the system
and just part of your life,
automated so that it
just happens for you,
you don't have to think about it,
very convenient to access your
data and get to those files later,
and compatible with the system.
with the system you use today,
not something that's hacked on.
So here's what we did to
tackle the configuration.
Some of you who've hopefully
installed Leopard by now and tried it,
you've probably seen this.
But we think we did a pretty good job of
making things really simple to configure.
Because in fact,
all you need to do in order to
run Time Machine is simply select
a disk and flip the switch.
And then you're running Time Machine.
So that hopefully will encourage
plenty of people to do it
that are not doing today.
And of course, one of the major features
of Time Machine is the
integration with the system.
We're fully integrated with the Finder.
Hopefully you've already seen
the Time Machine browser,
and we think this is really,
really a leap forward in terms of
how to interact with backup data.
In addition, we're fully integrated
with the installer.
And we think this is another
really important thing.
So when you go to do an install,
we've been telling people for years,
before you install your machine,
go out and back up your data.
And nobody does it,
because they don't know how.
So today, now we can say,
go out there and back up your
data before you do an install.
And just offer them a
check box that says,
back up my data for me.
And it just happens.
And then in addition, on the other side,
you can also,
when you go to install a new system,
you can choose to install
it directly from a backup,
which is really nice.
It's automated.
By default, everything is backed up.
And it just happens once per day.
And in addition,
we maintain rolling backups
for the last couple of hours.
And I'll get into that in a couple of
slides why that's useful and important.
So here's the convenience.
Because of the state of the art,
how disks have gotten
so big and so cheap,
we've really been able to move
to kind of a new paradigm,
which is to use high speed,
high bandwidth storage devices,
which in our case is either
locally attached external disks
or AFP servers over a local net.
And this is really important
because it really brings your
backups to where they're online,
they're always accessible,
they're always there,
and they just become part of your system
rather than being something on the side.
So we use a compatible archive format,
and it's in fact so compatible
that you're already using it.
And that is HFS+ with journaling on.
And you can view the disks on Tiger and
Panther systems because it's just HFS.
And we don't encode or compress anything,
and we don't put everything
into a huge data blob to make
it hard to go through later.
So let's talk about a few of
the features of Time Machine.
Automatic backups.
Well, we backup changes on a
rolling basis each hour.
So what this means is for
the last couple of hours,
we always have the data at the
state it was about an hour ago.
And this provides extra protection,
obviously,
because if you should happen to
need to get to data that you had,
you've only got an hour of lag.
And at the end of the day,
we then take the last one of those and
we roll it over into a daily backup.
So we preserve those over time,
so that lets you go back and
find older versions over time,
but you've always got a backup
that's no more than an hour old.
In addition,
you can specify if you happen
to be somebody who doesn't want
the machine doing it hourly,
you can specify that you only
want it once per day using the
option in the control panel.
So as you go and you
create multiple backups,
you're going to end up
using more and more disks,
obviously, on the backup disk.
And by default,
we always keep all backups all the time.
So you can always go back a year,
two years, however long,
and look at every
backup that you've made.
If, however, you decide that for me,
I only care about six months of backups,
anything older than that,
I figure that I probably don't
need or something like that.
And you'd like to allow yourself to
get more data onto your backup disk,
you can specify a time
period to keep backups.
And in that case,
we'll still keep all your
backups all the time until we
start running out of disk space.
And if that's the case,
we'll start removing older
backups to make room for new ones.
And of course,
you always have the option,
if you start running out of disk,
to buy a larger disk,
which is always a good idea anyway.
Because by the time
you get to that point,
you know,
it may just be time to get a new disk.
Because they just keep
getting bigger and cheaper,
right?
And in addition,
you can change the period to
keep backups or manually delete
ones that you don't want.
So one of the big features of
Time Machine is that you don't have to
figure out what files are important.
By default,
we back up everything that you
need to restore a system disk.
So this means that you don't
have to go and worry about,
well, what if I didn't get this
one file that I need,
and it's going to bite
me two years later?
By default, we grab everything.
And this includes system updates.
And now, a lot of people,
when I first told them that, said, well,
but system updates,
is that going to be too
big and use too much space?
But it turns out that system updates
are usually in the tens of megabytes
on a hundreds of gigabytes disk.
So it turns out that it's really
easy to grab system file changes.
The other thing is that system files
only change every couple months or so.
So it's really not a problem to do that.
So here is an example of the layout
that we use for Time Machine.
On the backup disk,
inside of there is a backup directory.
And inside of that,
you'll see for each machine that has
been backed up on this backup disk,
you'll see a folder.
And inside that folder will
be a series of dated backups.
And inside of each one of those
will be the disks that that
machine has got backed up.
So on top of that,
we use special access control
lists on top of the files we lay
down that make these read only.
These cannot be modified.
You can't go and delete stuff.
You can't rename stuff.
The file system itself is
protected and can't be modified.
So when you go to restore
with Time Machine,
you can restore using the great
Time Machine interface on Leopard.
You can also browse the structure
that I just showed you with your
average file management tools.
Or you can use the installer to
restore an entire system from
a backup you've made before.
Furthermore, if you buy a new system and
you want to move your files
over to a brand new system,
you can make a backup,
buy your new system,
and then use the migration assistant to
migrate directly from that backup disk,
which is really a nice feature.
So Spotlight.
Well, our backups-- how do they
interact with Spotlight?
Spotlight does index your backups.
And so--
Obviously, the question is, well,
when I search with Spotlight,
what happens to those backups?
Because I don't want to search for
some text file and find the last 20
revisions of that text file in there.
So what happens is, by default,
Spotlight does not include
backups in any of your queries.
And this is not implemented yet,
but by the time we ship,
there will be special
options added to Spotlight,
which will allow you to tell Spotlight
that you want to search backups.
And you'll be able to use Spotlight on
your backups to find files from the past.
So the requirements in order
to use Time Machine are here.
First of all,
you must be running Leopard.
That's probably not a surprise.
You must have either an external hard
disk or an Apple server on a local disk,
on a local network.
And we do require, once again,
journaled HFS+ disk.
On the external disk,
it should be formatted that way.
On a server,
we use a disk image file with a
journaled HFS+ disk image file.
So that's kind of an overview
of what Time Machine is.
Now let's talk about a little bit
behind the scenes about how it works.
So when we first make up a backup,
as should be pretty obvious,
everything needs to be copied
because we don't have anything yet.
So the first time through,
we simply copy everything.
After you've made a first backup and
you go to make additional backups,
what happens is we use the new
facility in Leopard called FSEvents,
and hopefully you at least
have heard about this.
This is a new feature of Leopard
where the file system itself can
broadcast events that happen to you,
and so you can find out, for example,
everything in the file system that
has changed since a given time period.
And this is really useful.
This is what we use in order to say
what has changed since the last backup.
And in this case, we have four files,
and FSEvents has reported to us
that files B and D have changed
since we last made a backup.
So we simply create a new backup and we
copy files B and D over to that backup.
So what about the other files?
What we do is we don't
want to copy those.
They already exist.
So we use file system hard links
to point back to the previous
versions in the former backup.
So this has a really nice benefit
because to the user there appear
to be two separate directories each
which contain four individual files.
But in fact on disk
there's only six files.
So this allows us to fit a
lot more stuff on the disk.
And obviously,
that means we can make backups and
backups and backups and backups,
even for lots of data.
So if we did that, that's great,
but it still means that
we create a ton of links,
right?
Because everything in every folder
needs to be linked that hasn't changed,
needs to be linked to the file
that's in the previous backup.
So we don't really want to do that,
so we don't.
So what you'd really want to do
in this case is you'd want to say,
well, everything in those two
top level directories,
nothing has changed.
So why do I need to do anything
inside the directories?
Why don't I just say,
make that directory be the
same as the one before?
And in fact, that's what we do.
We've got a new special
kind of links that we added,
which are called archive directory links.
And instead,
any time we've got a top level
folder which has not changed,
we simply point it to the previous one.
And this lets us,
in the case where there's
very few file system changes,
to create an entire backup
using very little data.
And this means that this
is how we're able to fit so
much data on a backup disk.
So let's talk about integrity.
One of the issues for doing backup is
there's a lot of things on the system.
And the primary one are bundles,
where you've got files that
are related to each other.
And as we go to backup,
obviously all the files don't get
copied across the link at once.
They're copied serially.
And as things are copied,
it takes time to occur.
And at some point,
the user can come along and modify
a file before we're finished,
after we've started and
before we've finished.
So when we do this, once again,
after we've completed, we ask FSEvents,
well, what changed while we
were doing the backup?
In this case, it came back and said,
well, the user changed file B.
So we use that information to then go
and recopy B to make things stable.
And this repeats,
this process repeats so long
as the files keep changing.
But what happens is over time
we start with a very large
number of files getting copied.
And then we say, FSEvents, well,
we copied this 100 files.
What's changed?
And it says, OK, well,
these two files have changed
while you were doing that.
So we go through and we
then recopy those two files.
And then we ask FSEvents again, well,
how many have changed now?
And hopefully it comes back zero.
But what happens is that the first time,
the first copying window might take, say,
five minutes to copy all of those files.
But then the second one,
only two or three files have
changed during that period.
And the copying period during
that might be a matter of seconds.
So in that time period,
we only have a small window to
worry about things changing.
And that window continues to get smaller.
And hopefully it gets
more and more stable.
But we will time out in the case that
there is extremely volatile files.
But that should be really rare.
So how can you play
nice with Time Machine?
First of all, these are the top two
things that you can do.
Number one is to tell us which files
you have which we shouldn't back up.
The other one is to add
support for Quick Look.
So excluding files.
Here are examples of files that you
might want to exclude from the system.
These are temporary files that you
know they're just there for a bit.
Cache files, which just cache data
from your other files.
Index files, which reference other files
if they're rebuildable.
And in fact, any large rebuildable file,
you should mark and tell us,
if you can rebuild it,
you're better to rebuild it
after restore than to have
that backed up in every copy.
So here's an example where we have the,
for Safari, Safari has cache files.
This was shown by
Scott earlier this week.
Safari has cache files here and that we
obviously don't want to back up because
they're changing all the time and
there's no reason to keep them around.
So the first thing you can do is to use
one of the well known existing locations
for cache files or temporary files.
And this is /temp or /tilda
library caches or /library caches.
In the case of Safari,
it puts its temporary files
into library caches Safari.
And by default,
we just don't pick them up and
Safari doesn't have to do anything else.
The other thing you can
do is to use this API,
CS Backup Set Item Excluded,
to exclude your items.
And there's two ways you can use this.
The first one is to exclude by path.
In this case,
you specify a URL to a path,
and you pass true for exclude by path.
When you do this, the path is added to a
list of excluded locations,
and we won't back that location up.
It should note though that
this is stored by path.
So if the contents in that path happen
to move somewhere else on the disk,
they will get backed up.
The other way is to
exclude a specific item.
If you make the same call
but specify an item URL,
and this can be either
a file or a folder,
and false for exclude by path,
that specific item will
be marked as excluded.
And it will be excluded any time
we hit it anywhere in the system.
So even if it moves to another location,
it will still be excluded.
On the other side,
you can find out if a particular item
is currently being excluded by making
a call to CS Backup Item is excluded.
And this will return true if the item
is currently excluded from the backup.
And exclude by path in this
case will be set to false if the
specific item has been marked
as excluded by the previous API.
Otherwise, it will return true.
And that means that it's excluded
because of its current location.
But that can mean either that it's
at a path which has been excluded,
or it's contained within a
folder which has been excluded
by item rather than by path.
The other thing you can do
to help with Time Machine,
and this is probably the most important
one in addition to the other one,
is to add Quick Look support to your app.
What this does is this allows us to
preview your app contents from older
versions without having to load your app.
And so the user can go back,
can find that old document
from your app from a month ago,
hit a button, bring it back,
and you're done.
If you happen to use standard data
types like HTML or RTF or PDF,
we have a set of these that we'll
be shipping and you'll already work.
But if you have a proprietary format,
you should look into writing
a Quick Look importer.
And this will also help you with
anybody else who uses Quick Look,
which in Leopard will include
Spotlight and a bunch of other stuff.
So copying from backups.
In general,
you should never need to do this.
By default,
the user goes to Time Machine,
finds the file they want,
brings it forward.
It just happens entirely
outside of your app space.
But there may be cases where your app
decides that it really needs to pull
something out of the backup store.
If you do that, it's important that you
use fscopyobject to do it.
You can't just go and do a simple copy.
This is because it handles things
like the archive directory links
correctly and will rebuild the
directory tree so that it looks right.
It'll also restore all the
original files permissions.
It will also remove all of
the access control lists and
set all that stuff right.
It should be noted that this is exactly
the same copy engine which is currently
used by Finder and Time Machine,
so you're guaranteed to
work into the future.
So here's an additional few
helpful tips for your application.
When you use index files, if possible,
make the index rebuildable.
Don't put any non-rebuildable
information into the index.
Make it simply a cache of
information that you can rebuild
from the items themselves.
And if you do that,
it's good because then you can
then go and mark that file as
not needing to be backed up,
and it will just never be backed up.
If you do have a backup file,
in this case the example is for
a music system where you have an
index file that has a bunch of cast
information about all of the music files.
In this case it's got the album name,
the group name, but in this case they've
included play count.
What happens is that every
single time that you play a song,
that index file gets touched
and play count gets bumped up.
What happens is that that index file
might be multiple megabytes of file
because I might have thousands of songs.
What happens is every
time that you play a song,
we have to then go and
re-backup that file.
You're going to get in
every single backup,
you're going to get this huge five
megabyte blob that gets moved into
the backup when the song is played.
It's not even needed.
What you should do is any kind of
data which you know is going to
be changing on a regular basis,
take out of your index files.
Make the index files big static
caches that you can mark as
not needing to be backed up.
Then move any data which is going to
be changing on a regular basis into
smaller little files that we can back
up and that don't take a lot of space.
One option to consider that will
help you with this is if you-- it
doesn't make sense in every case,
but if it makes sense for you,
you can look at using
bundles for your app data.
In this case,
this gives you a really simple
way to separate any metadata,
things like play count or user
rating or anything like that,
from the actual data itself.
So in the case of, let's say,
for a song file,
let's say the metadata has a user
rating and it has a play count in it.
Well, in this case, by doing this,
we've separated the song data
from the metadata itself,
from the user rating and all that.
And if the user marks it changed,
we don't have to back
up all the song data.
We don't have 12 megabytes of song data.
We just have 150k file
or something instead.
The other advantage to this
is because it appears as a
single icon within the finder,
if the user moves it
to another directory,
all the metadata will go with the file.
And when you rename it or
restore it with Time Machine,
it will all come back as one unit.
The other thing you can do if you happen
to have a database-based file is really,
you should consider
adopting a document model.
This means you don't assume
the database is a specific path
and you can only have one open.
And when you open your app,
you always open this
database of this path.
Instead,
allow selecting more than one database
and having more than one database
open at a time so that you could,
in the future some way down the road,
be able to open both
versions of your database,
one from backup and one from current,
and be able to merge records
from one into the other.
So a final note.
The API that we've talked about here
today can be found in backup.core,
which is a new header
in carboncore.framework.
And it should be noted that this is
one of the newest pieces of the system.
It is rapidly evolving.
Features are subject to change.
And many changes already have been made,
even since we froze the conference DVD.
So please keep your eyes open for
seed updates that will be coming.
And this code is rapidly evolving.
So just be aware of that.
And if you want more information
or you have comments,
this is the person you should contact,
John Galenze and his galenze@apple.com.